# FDM Connector

The FDM Connector is an OctoPrint plugin that simplifies the initial connection to FDM Monster. The plugin is also expected to facilitate setting up a tunnel connection and tracking filament usage in future versions.

## Current feature(s)

- Auto-registration - Send your OctoPrint connection parameters to FDM Monster securely to make setting up printers a breeze.

## Future features

- Filament Pedometer - Send filament usage data to FDM Monster, cooperating with the plugin SpoolManager without external database (Filament Manager is not our aim).
- Http Tunnel - Connect to FDM Monster to make connection to printers easy, especially over docker, VPN, DMZ, VLAN, the cloud or other complex network setups.
- Single-sign-On - Client-to-machine (C2M) and machine-to-machine (M2M) authentication, removing the need for more than 1 set of credentials across the farm.

For more feature requests, bugs, or ideas, please visit the [FDM Connector Discussions page](https://github.com/fdm-monster/fdm-connector/discussions).

## Setup

**Note: This plugin is currently in the alpha stage and requires the plugin system on FDM Monster, which is not yet released.**

To install the FDM Connector, use the bundled [Plugin Manager](https://docs.octoprint.org/en/master/bundledplugins/pluginmanager.html) or manually use this URL:

```
https://github.com/fdm-monster/fdm-connector/archive/main.zip
```

Configure the plugin completely for one or more printers before checking FDM Monster.


## Configuration
**Warning - restoring from an OctoPrint backup can be a cause of security weakness due to copied passwords. In the end, we are not responsible for your choices, but we advise changing the `accessControl:salt` and regenerating the main user account for each OctoPrint instance.**

### Configuration - auto-registration
Properly configuring the auto-registration can massively improve the steps you need to undertake to set up your farm.

- REQUIRED `fdm_host`: the host to reach FDM Monster with (IP, localhost, domain name, etc)
- REQUIRED `fdm_port`: the port to approach the FDM Monster server (number)
- REQUIRED `oidc_client_id`: the client ID to authenticate with the FDM Monster server using OpenID Connect (string)
- REQUIRED `oidc_client_secret`: the client secret key to authenticate with the FDM Monster server using OpenID Connect (string)
- OPTIONAL `port_override`: the announced port for how FDM Monster can reach OctoPrint later (default is taken from `server:port`, but this is not always correct in case of Docker or a proxy.)

We understand if you restore OctoPrint backups to install new OctoPrints. For that reason, we've introduced two unique IDs (UUID).
- AUTOGENERATED `persistence_uuid`: a unique identifier stored in the plugin folder in `device.json`, which is excluded from backups to prevent duplicate printers. Don't adjust this if you don't understand it.
- AUTOGENERATED `device_uuid`: a unique identifier stored in the `config.yaml` at startup. Don't adjust this if you don't understand it.

Periodic updates
- OPTIONAL `ping`: the time in seconds between each call to FDM Monster (default is 15 * 60, or 15 minutes)

The plugin will use `server:host` and `server:port` to give FDM Monster a handle to connect back to this OctoPrint. This is often incorrect if your OctoPrint is behind a proxy, in a VM, UnRaid, a different device, DMZ, in a docker container, or in a VPN.
At this moment, this needs to be rectified in FDM Monster. Later we will allow more advanced ways to fix this, but for now, we believe this plugin is going to make it much easier already.

## Conclusion
FDM Connector is an OctoPrint plugin that helps in setting up a tunnel connection and tracking filament usage. With its current features, such as auto-registration, it allows you to send your OctoPrint connection parameters to FDM Monster safely, making setting up printers a breeze. Additionally, it offers future features like the Filament Pedometer, Http Tunnel, and Single-sign-On for client-to-machine and machine-to-machine authentication, removing the need for more than one set of credentials across the farm. If you have any feature requests, bugs, or ideas, please head over to https://github.com/fdm-monster/fdm-connector/discussions.
